---
CIP No.: 107
Title: DAO-Adjustable Burn of Storage Collateral
Author: Ming Wu<ming.wu@confluxnetwork.org>, Chenxing Li<chenxing@confluxnetwork.org>
Status: Draft
Type: Spec Breaking
Created: 2023-02-06
---

## Simple Summary

When a sponsor adds storage collateral for a contract, a proportion of the CFX tokens will be burned, and the corresponding amount of "storage point" will be minted. The "storage point" cannot be transferred and will not generate storage interest. But it can pay for storage collateral as CFX tokens.

## Abstract

The main focus of this CIP is the introduction of the **storage point** system, which results from the burning of storage collateral. Whenever a sponsor initiates or append the sponsor balance for collateral, or replaces the sponsor for collateral, a fraction (*p*) of the corresponding balance is burned and converted into "storage points".

Presently, 1 CFX equates to 1 KB of storage collateral. With this mechanism, for every 1 CFX burned, 1024 storage points will be generated. These storage points cannot be transferred and won't generate storage interest, but they can be used to pay for storage collateral just like CFX tokens. Notably, storage points will be given priority when used for this purpose. The converted CFX is permanently burned and non-refundable under all circumstances, including situations where the contract is destroyed or the sponsor is replaced.

The value of *p* starts at 0.5 and can be adjusted by [On-Chain DAO Vote for Chain Parameters](./cip-94#specification). Following the activation of this CIP, *p* proportion of the existing `collateral_for_storage + sponsor_balance_for_collateral` for every contract will be converted into storage points. This conversion will be carried out lazily, meaning the conversion ratio could change if the DAO vote modifies the value of *p*.

## Motivation

The primary motivation for this CIP is to implement burning mechanisms that counteract the continuous inflation of CFX tokens, thereby improving the tokenomics of Conflux.

The storage point system is designed to have a minimal impact on economics. Contract sponsors mainly care about the amount of tokens required to support their business operations, but aren't typically concerned about the refund of storage collaterals. This CIP does not impose any additional costs for the storage collateral, except that a portion of the tokens are permanently converted into storage points. As the storage interest per block is only 0.002 CFX, which is much lower than the base reward, this CIP also has a minor influence on miners.

## Specification

### Collateral and Storage Point

In this part, the following parameters are used to simplify the description:

* `collateral_for_storage`: storage collateral already sponsored, accessible via `cfx_getAccount` RPC with contract's address as parameter. `used_storage_points` is also included in `collateral_for_storage` (after CIP-107).
* `sponsor_balance_for_collateral`: available (refundable) sponsor balance for storage collateral, accessible via `cfx_getSponsorInfo` RPC or `SponsorWhitelistControl` internal contract's method `getSponsoredBalanceForCollateral`.
* `available_storage_points`: storage points available to sponsor storage collateral. Accessible via `cfx_getSponsorInfo` RPC or `SponsorWhitelistControl` internal contract's method `getAvailableStoragePoints` which was introduced by [CIP-118](CIP-118.md).
* `used_storage_points`: storage points already used for storage collateral. Accessible via `cfx_getSponsorInfo` RPC.
* `tx.value`: value field of the transaction, meaning the amount of CFX transferred with the transaction.

#### Composition

##### Before CIP-107

Prior to CIP-107, the CFX provided by a collateral sponsor would be completely refunded if the sponsor was replaced or the contract was destroyed:

`CFX provided by collateral sponsor = refundable collateral`

This refundable collateral, however, cannot be directly accessed on-chain. It can be computed from two components: the contract's `collateral_for_storage` and `sponsor_balance_for_collateral` (accessible via `cfx_getSponsorInfo` RPC or `SponsorWhitelistControl` contract):

`CFX provided by collateral sponsor (i.e., refundable collateral) = collateral_for_storage + sponsor_balance_for_collateral`

##### After CIP-107

Following CIP-107's activation, the CFX provided by a collateral sponsor will not be fully refundable if the sponsor is replaced or the contract is destroyed. This is because a proportion of CFX is burned and converted into storage points (1024 storage points/CFX):

`CFX provided by collateral sponsor = refundable collateral + (storage points / 1024)`

Both parts above cannot be directly accessed on-chain. However, several new interfaces become available via `cfx_getSponsorInfo` RPC or `SponsorWhitelistControl` contract after CIP-107: `available_storage_points` and `used_storage_points`. The former represents available storage points for collateral, while the latter represents already used storage points:

`storage points = available_storage_points + used_storage_points`

The contract's `collateral_for_storage` now consists of both `used_storage_points` and the used refundable part:

`CFX provided by collateral sponsor = collateral_for_storage + (sponsor_balance_for_collateral + available_storage_points / 1024)`

and,

`refundable collateral = sponsor_balance_for_collateral + (collateral_for_storage - used_storage_points / 1024)`

#### Storage Points Conversion

##### Sponsor Initiation

When a sponsor initiates the sponsor balance for collateral, *p* proportion of the provided CFX is burned and converted into storage points:

`CFX burnt = (storage points) / 1024 = p * (tx.value)`

##### Lazy Conversion for Sponsored Collateral Before CIP-107 Activation

Any CFX provided as sponsor balance for collateral before CIP-107 activation will also be burned based on *p*:

`CFX burnt = (storage points) / 1024 = p * (CFX ever provided) = p * (collateral_for_storage + sponsor_balance_for_collateral)`

Note: the conversion is carried out lazily, and the conversion ratio may change following a DAO vote. The conversion will be triggered once the storage collateral of the contract is changed at the transaction granularity.

##### Append Sponsor Balance for Collateral

The collateral sponsor can append balance for contract. The appended part will also be burnt based on *p*. We use "surplus" keyword to identify the newly added part and total part.

`surplus CFX burnt = (surplus storage points) / 1024 = p * (surplus CFX provided) = p * (tx.value)`

Note: *p* is subject to the value at the time the sponsor balance is supplemented, hence the ratio of storage points to total CFX provided may change.

##### Sponsor Replacement

The following requirement applies for sponsor replacement:

`surplus CFX provided = tx.value - previous refundable collateral > 0`

And the surplus CFX provided will be burnt based on *p*.

```
surplus CFX burnt
= (surplus storage points) / 1024
= p * (surplus CFX provided)
= p * (tx.value - previous refundable collateral)
= p * (tx.value - (sponsor_balance_for_collateral + (collateral_for_storage - use_storage_points / 1024)))
```

#### Storage Collateral Usage Priority

When sponsoring a transaction, the storage points will be deducted initially. If the `available_storage_points` are insufficient to cover the additional storage collateral, the contract will utilize the `sponsor_balance_for_collateral` instead.

### The Voting of Proportion

We introduce a parameter `STORAGE_POINT_PORP` with 18 decimals initialized by `1`. The propotion of *p* is defined by `STORAGE_POINT_PORP / (STORAGE_POINT_PORP + 1)`. For example, if in the first voting period, all the votes agree to increase the `STORAGE_POINT_PORP`, `STORAGE_POINT_PORP` will become `2` and *p* equals 67% (calculated in the same way as in [CIP-94](./cip-94#specification)).

### The Statistics of Token Supply

When the sponsor balance for collateral is converted to the storage points, corresponding CFX tokens will be deducted from `total_issued_tokens` and `total_collateral_tokens`.

## Rationale

TBA.

## Backwards Compatibility

This change is spec breaking.

## Test Cases

TBA.

## Implementation

TBA.

## Security Considerations

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
