---
CIP No.: 104
Title: Create EVM-Compatible Space with Ethereum State
Author: Ming Wu<ming.wu@confluxnetwork.org>
Status: Draft
Type: Spec Breaking
Created: 2022-08-14
---

## Simple Summary
Create a new EVM-compatible space with Ethereum state at specific block number as the genesis state, e.g., the block just before Ethereum Merge(with POS) taking effect. This can be treated as an Ethereum POW hardfork chain.

## Abstract
Create a new Space on Conflux to **state-fork** Ethereum.

## Motivation
Ethereum Merge is coming and POW will be abandoned soon. This will largely affect the business environment of ETH miners. Currently, there are some efforts and communities being initiated to hardfork Ethereum with POW. However, the existing Ethereum technology stack is not advanced, and the Ethereum foundation and tech team will definitely not support the further development of those hardfork chains. 

Our observation is that the fundamental of a fork is the replication of the ledger state rather than the consensus mechanism, so we innovatively propose a concept of state-fork for Ethereum.

Creating an Ethereum fork chain on Conflux has the following advantages:
1. Conflux's virtual space mechanism allows creating a new EVM-compatible blockchain with Conflux consensus technology support.
2. Conflux's consensus is based on more advanced TreeGraph technology that significantly outperforms Ethereum without sacrificing decentralization. 
3. Conflux sticks to POW mining and tends to be friendly to ETH miners (see cip-102).
4. Conflux foundation will continue to develop Conflux technology with new innovations.

## Specification
TBA.

## Rationale
TBA.

## Backwards Compatibility
This change is spec breaking.

## Test Cases
TBA.

## Implementation
TBA.

## Security Considerations

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/). 
