---
CIP No.: 152
Title: Reject Transactions from Senders with Deployed Code
Author: Chenxing Li (@ChenxingLi)
Status: Final
Type: Spec Breaking
Created: 2025-02-10
---

## Simple Summary
This CIP replicates [EIP-3607](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-3607), which addresses a potential security issue where an EOA could share the same address as a contract due to a collision attack. Specifically designed EOAs with code (like [EIP-7702](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7702)), are not affected by this restriction.

## Motivation

As described in [EIP-3607](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-3607), this restriction prevents the worst-case scenario in which a seemingly legitimate contract (e.g., a token wrapper or an AMM-type contract) is deployed to attract user funds, only for those funds to be spent using the private key of the EOA with the same address. 

## Specification  
Similar to [EIP-3607](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-3607), a transaction sender must not have any code associated with its address; otherwise, the transaction will fail. The subsequent CIP can exempt this restriction for specific scenarios (like EIP-7702). However, unlike EIP-3607, the consensus layer does not actively enforce this rule. Blocks packing such transactions are not considered as invalid.

## Rationale  
When EIP-3607 was proposed, EIP-7702 did not yet exist. However, it is now confirmed that EIP-7702 will be activated on the Ethereum mainnet, and Conflux will also introduce a compatible CIP. In a future upgrade (as part of EIP-7702), certain types of EOAs with code will be allowed. Therefore, simply checking the code hash is insufficient; a full check of the code itself is required. Given that Conflux is designed to support significantly higher TPS than Ethereum, performing such checks at the consensus layer would introduce substantial state reads, which is not ideal. 

Removing the consensus-layer check seems potentially introduce a DoS attack risk. However, as noted in EIP-3607, constructing a collision attack would require an investment on the scale of $10 billion. If the only benefit of such a collision is to enable a DoS attack, rather than stealing assets from DeFi contracts, the incentive to carry out such an attack is significantly reduced. Moreover, there are already lower-cost methods available within the existing system to achieve similar outcomes, meaning this change does not introduce additional risks.


## Backwards Compatibility
This CIP is Spec Breaking.

## Security Considerations
<!--All CIPs must contain a section that discusses the security implications/considerations relevant to the proposed change. Include information that might be important for security discussions, surfaces risks and can be used throughout the life cycle of the proposal. E.g. include security-relevant design decisions, concerns, important discussions, implementation-specific guidance and pitfalls, an outline of threats and risks and how they are being addressed. CIP submissions missing the "Security Considerations" section will be rejected. a CIP cannot proceed to status "Final" without a Security Considerations discussion deemed sufficient by the reviewers.-->
N/A

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).