---
CIP No.: 133
Title: Enhanced Block Hash Query
Author: Chenxing Li (@ChenxingLi)
Status: Draft
Type: Spec Breaking
Created: 2024-01-11
---

## Simple Summary
This proposal targets improving the block hash query, in Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM). In Ethereum, the `BLOCKHASH(0x40)` opcode allows querying the hash of the previous 255 blocks, but due to Conflux's consensus complexity, it currently supports querying only the hash of the immediately preceding block. 

This CIP proposes a new method for retrieving block hashes by storing them in the state, allowing access to a much broader range of block hashes and increasing the query range from 256 to 65,536 blocks.

## Abstract
The opcode `BLOCKHASH(0x40)` in EVM enables retrieving block hashes. However, Conflux's unique block structure limits its capability to efficiently fetch hashes for a range of blocks. Moreover, the current implementation in Conflux core space incorrectly returns the pivot block hash of the previous epoch, which does not necessarily correspond to the expected block number. While this limitation is trivial for applications like generating random seeds, evolving ecosystem needs such as Layer 2 solutions and trustless cross-chain functionalities demand reliable block header information for verification purposes. 

This CIP proposes a novel approach by writing the relevant block hashes into the state, which can then be accessed as needed. In the core space, this change supports both epoch number-based queries (via internal contract) and block number-based queries (via BLOCKHASH opcode). In espace, BLOCKHASH will retrieve hashes based on epoch numbers, as the "blocks" in space are essentially epochs. 

The cost of these queries will rise from 20 to that of a single `SLOAD(0x54)` operation (200). Considering Conflux's faster block generation rate, the query range expands to 65,536 blocks, allowing for longer access to relevant block hash data.

## Motivation
The existing Conflux protocol does not adequately meet the growing need for reliable and extensive block hash access within its blockchain ecosystem. As the landscape of blockchain applications evolves, with a growing emphasis on Layer 2 solutions and trustless cross-chain operations, the demand for a more robust and versatile block hash retrieval method becomes increasingly critical. The current limitation to accessing only the immediately preceding block hash, along with inaccuracies in the returned hash values, hinders the development and implementation of more advanced and secure blockchain functionalities.

## Specification

### Conventions
In this document, a 'storage key' is defined as a special type, considered both as a 32-byte array and a big-endian stored 256-bit integer. When represented as `0x12345...`, the left side indicates lower addresses, consistent with EVM standards and practices. 

`keccak` refers to the Keccak-256 hash function, the most commonly used function in the EVM.

### Definitions
- `B`: Integer type, block number at which CIP-133 is activated.
- `E`: Integer type, epoch number at which CIP-133 is activated.
- `BLOCK_HASHES_START_SLOT`: Storage key type, value is `keccak("CIP_133_BLOCK_HASHES_START_SLOT") & (~0xffff)`, the hash of `CIP_133_BLOCK_HASHES_START_SLOT` with the least significant 16 bits set to 0. The actual value is `0xc7662a0b77939cdc926212423640a0ef86fc7aed29480a86e82c099374090000`.
- `EPOCH_HASHES_START_SLOT`: Storage key type, value is `keccak("CIP_133_EPOCH_HASHES_START_SLOT") & (~0xffff)`, the hash of `CIP_133_EPOCH_HASHES_START_SLOT` with the least significant 16 bits set to 0. The actual value is `0x79eb05c8bfb57e3a0da7c978fead9ee853a5b47d4b2ccb56d6d9e770549d0000`.
- `CONTEXT_CONTRACT_ADDRESS`: A built-in contract address, `0x0888000000000000000000000000000000000004`.
- `SYSTEM_STORAGE_ADDRESS`: A built-in contract address, `0x088800000000000000000000000000000000000a`.

### Recording of Block Hashes and Epoch Hashes
When a block satisfies `block number >= B`, at the end of all transaction executions within the block, the following operation is performed: Set the block hash in the `BLOCK_HASHES_START_SLOT + b % 65536` storage slot of SYSTEM_STORAGE_ADDRESS, where `b` is the current block number, with the storage owner being null.

For a pivot block satisfying `epoch number >= E`, after all transactions in the block are executed, perform: Set the block hash in the `EPOCH_HASHES_START_SLOT + e % 65536` storage slot of SYSTEM_STORAGE_ADDRESS, where `e` is the current epoch number, with the storage owner being null.

### Queries

**Core space block number query**
If the current block number is `>= B + 1`, `BLOCKHASH`, upon receiving input `x`, checks if `x < current block number && x >= B && x >= current block number - 65536`. If true, it returns the hash from `BLOCK_HASHES_START_SLOT + x % 65536` of SYSTEM_STORAGE_ADDRESS; otherwise, it returns 0.

**Espace epoch number query**
If the current espace block number is `>= E + 1`, `BLOCKHASH`, upon receiving input `x`, checks if `x < current espace block number && x >= E && x >= current espace block number - 65536`. If true, it returns the hash from `EPOCH_HASHES_START_SLOT + x % 65536` of SYSTEM_STORAGE_ADDRESS; otherwise, it returns 0.

**Core space epoch number query**
If the current epoch number is `>= E + 1`, introduce the following function in the internal contract at `CONTEXT_CONTRACT_ADDRESS`:
```solidity
function getEpochHash(uint256 epochNumber) public view returns (bytes32);
```
This behaves similarly to the espace `BLOCKHASH`.

### Costs
After block number `>= B + 1`, the gas cost for core space `BLOCKHASH` is adjusted to `SLOAD_GAS(200)`.
After epoch number `>= E + 1`, the gas cost for espace `BLOCKHASH` and the built-in contract function `getEpochHash` is set to `SLOAD_GAS(200)`.

## Rationale
N/A

## Backwards Compatibility
This CIP is Spec Breaking.

## Test Cases
<!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for CIPs that are affecting consensus changes. Other CIPs can choose to include links to test cases if applicable.-->
N/A

## Implementation
<!--The implementations must be completed before any CIP is given status "Final", but it need not be completed before the CIP is accepted. While there is merit to the approach of reaching consensus on the specification and rationale before writing code, the principle of "rough consensus and running code" is still useful when it comes to resolving many discussions of API details.-->
N/A

## Security Considerations
<!--All CIPs must contain a section that discusses the security implications/considerations relevant to the proposed change. Include information that might be important for security discussions, surfaces risks and can be used throughout the life cycle of the proposal. E.g. include security-relevant design decisions, concerns, important discussions, implementation-specific guidance and pitfalls, an outline of threats and risks and how they are being addressed. CIP submissions missing the "Security Considerations" section will be rejected. a CIP cannot proceed to status "Final" without a Security Considerations discussion deemed sufficient by the reviewers.-->
N/A

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
