---
CIP No.: 137
Title: Base Fee Sharing in CIP-1559
Author: Chenxing Li (@ChenxingLi)
Status: Draft
Type: Spec Breaking
Created: 2024-05-09
Required CIPs: [94](cip-94.md), [1559](cip-1559.md)
---

## Simple Summary
This CIP proposes adjusting how transaction fees are distributed under the Conflux CIP-1559 update, aiming to share a portion of the base fee with miners. 

## Abstract
In the [EIP-1559](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1559), the transaction fee was split into a base fee, which is burned, and a tip or priority fee, which is paid to miners. For the upcoming Conflux CIP-1559, this CIP proposes allocating a portion of the base fee to miners, determined by DAO vote described in [CIP-94](CIP-94.md). The mechanism of the portion ratio adjustment will mirror the storage collateral burnt ratio from [CIP-107](CIP-107.md). 

Under the new system, transaction fees in Conflux will comprise three parts: the portion of the base fee that is burned, the portion of the base fee distributed to miners, and the priority fee. Transaction processing during each epoch will consider the base_gas_price from the pivot block, ensuring consistency across the whole epoch. Transactions in non-pivot blocks that cannot cover the base_gas_price will first allocate funds to the burn portion of the base fee. If they fail to cover this cost, the transaction will be rejected.

## Motivation
The core motivation for this change stems from a desire to better support miners, who play a crucial role in the Conflux ecosystem. After the activation of EIP-1559, during the "Otherside Gas War", 99% of the transaction fees are attributed to the base fee, leaving miners with only 1% of the fees. By sharing a portion of the base fee with miners, this CIP seeks to provide miners with a more predictable income. Additionally, by introducing a buffer through the partial distribution of the base fee, this CIP addresses discrepancies between pivot and non-pivot blocks in base gas prices, promoting more consistent transaction processing across the network. This adjustment is expected to bolster the network's security and decentralization by providing miners with a steadier and more equitable revenue stream.


## Specification

### Parameters
`CIP137_HARDFORK_NUMBER`: CIP137 is activated at a specified block number height.

### The Voting of Proportion

We introduce an integer parameter `BASE_FEE_PROP` initialized by `10^18` (representing 1 with 18 decimals). The propotion of *p* is defined by `BASE_FEE_PROP / (BASE_FEE_PROP + 10^18)`. For example, if in the first voting period, all the votes agree to increase the `BASE_FEE_PROP`, `BASE_FEE_PROP` will become `2 * 10^18` and *p* equals 67% (calculated in the same way as in [CIP-94](./cip-94.md#specification)).

### Ledger State Maintainence

Before the execution of block with block number `CIP137_HARDFORK_NUMBER`, the `BASE_FEE_PROP` parameter is stored in the state at a specific slot: address `0x0888000000000000000000000000000000000002`, storage key `base_fee_prop`. When a DAO vote takes effect, the `BASE_FEE_PROP` is updated.

### Transaction Processing

Each update to `BASE_FEE_PROP` takes effect at the start of the next epoch.

If CIP-1559 has not yet been activated, CIP-137 does not change any behavior; if CIP-1559 is already active, the following parameters for the epoch are defined:
- `base_gas_price`: `pivot_block.base_gas_price`
- `burnt_gas_price`: `pivot_block.base_gas_price - pivot_block.base_gas_price * BASE_FEE_PROP / (BASE_FEE_PROP + 10^18)`

During transaction execution, if a transaction's `max_gas_price` is less than the `burnt_gas_price`, the transaction execution fails without bumping nonce. Otherwise, the transaction's `actual_base_gas_price` is defined as the minimum of the `base_gas_price` and `tx.max_gas_price`. After determining the `actual_base_gas_price`, the same rules as in EIP-1559 are used to calculate the `priority_gas_price`, and the transaction's `actual_gas_price` is `actual_base_gas_price + priority_gas_price`. The miner's reward is calculated by `actual_gas_price-burnt_gas_price`.The logic for checking and collecting transaction fees, as well as the logic for contract sponsorship, is based on the calculated `actual_gas_price`.

Exception: If an account balance is insufficient to pay the transaction fee, all transaction fees are burnt and not distributed to miners.

## Rationale
N/A

## Backwards Compatibility
This CIP is Spec Breaking.

## Test Cases
<!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for CIPs that are affecting consensus changes. Other CIPs can choose to include links to test cases if applicable.-->
N/A

## Implementation
<!--The implementations must be completed before any CIP is given status "Final", but it need not be completed before the CIP is accepted. While there is merit to the approach of reaching consensus on the specification and rationale before writing code, the principle of "rough consensus and running code" is still useful when it comes to resolving many discussions of API details.-->
N/A

## Security Considerations
<!--All CIPs must contain a section that discusses the security implications/considerations relevant to the proposed change. Include information that might be important for security discussions, surfaces risks and can be used throughout the life cycle of the proposal. E.g. include security-relevant design decisions, concerns, important discussions, implementation-specific guidance and pitfalls, an outline of threats and risks and how they are being addressed. CIP submissions missing the "Security Considerations" section will be rejected. a CIP cannot proceed to status "Final" without a Security Considerations discussion deemed sufficient by the reviewers.-->
N/A

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
