---
CIP No.: 7702
Title: Set Code for EOA 
Author: Chenxing Li(@ChenxingLi)
Status: Draft
Type: Spec Breaking
Created: 2025-02-10
Required CIPs: 150, 151, 152
---

## Simple Summary
This CIP introduces [EIP-7702](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7702) to Conflux eSpace.

## Motivation

EIP-7702 is the most impactful proposal in Ethereum's upcoming Pectra upgrade for its ecosystem. Implementing this in eSpace would help maintain Conflux's compatibility with the Ethereum ecosystem.

## Specification

The specifications of this CIP remain largely the same with [EIP-7702](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7702), with the following Conflux-specific modifications:

- The chainId must be less than `2^64`, not `2^256`;
- The maximum transaction nonce in Conflux is `2^256-1`, not `2^64-1`. The authorization item nonce remains consistent with EIP-7702;
- When modifying delegated addresses, only new delegations are recorded without reclaiming ledger space from old delegations;
- Due to the above point, gas charges are applied uniformly (`PER_EMPTY_ACCOUNT_COST`) regardless of whether the authority address has set 7702 delegation.
- `PER_EMPTY_ACCOUNT_COST` is adjusted from `25000` to `50000`

## Rationale

### Not to implement EIP-7702 in Core Space

- Core Space uses `0x1` and `0x8` address prefixes to distinguish between EOAs and contracts. For performance optimization, many code logic components assume addresses with `0x1` prefix contain no code. (The initial introduction of address prefixes, despite causing incompatibility with EVM, was for performance benefits.)
- Introducing a new address prefix (such as `0x2`) for this CIP would negate EIP-7702's main advantage over [ERC-4337](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4337): compatibility with existing EOAs. The other features of EIP-7702 can be simulated using ERC-4337, which is an application-layer standard requiring no additional infrastructure adaptation. Thus, adding a new prefix would create a breaking change across the ecosystem while offering minimal additional benefits.
- The primary motivation for implementing EIP-7702 is its sponsorship mechanism. However, Core Space already has Conflux's native sponsorship mechanism in place.

### Non-recovery of Delegation Storage
Conflux implemented a unique MPT storage structure: the code is stored in a key-value map (`code_hash` → `code`); when killing a contract, the system performs range deletion operations on these key-value pairs. However, applying similar range deletions during delegate address reassignment would be expensive. 

Since we've implemented adjusted gas fees that both cover the cost of unrecoverable storage space, the potential DOS attacks can be prevented. If these unreclaimed storage spaces begin to impact system performance significantly, a manual cleanup mechanisms can be resolved.

## Backwards Compatibility
This CIP is Spec Breaking.

## Test Cases
<!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for CIPs that are affecting consensus changes. Other CIPs can choose to include links to test cases if applicable.-->
N/A

## Implementation
<!--The implementations must be completed before any CIP is given status "Final", but it need not be completed before the CIP is accepted. While there is merit to the approach of reaching consensus on the specification and rationale before writing code, the principle of "rough consensus and running code" is still useful when it comes to resolving many discussions of API details.-->
N/A

## Security Considerations
<!--All CIPs must contain a section that discusses the security implications/considerations relevant to the proposed change. Include information that might be important for security discussions, surfaces risks and can be used throughout the life cycle of the proposal. E.g. include security-relevant design decisions, concerns, important discussions, implementation-specific guidance and pitfalls, an outline of threats and risks and how they are being addressed. CIP submissions missing the "Security Considerations" section will be rejected. a CIP cannot proceed to status "Final" without a Security Considerations discussion deemed sufficient by the reviewers.-->
N/A

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
