---
CIP No.: 151
Title: SELFDESTRUCT only in Same Transaction
Author: Chenxing Li (@ChenxingLi)
Status: Draft
Type: Spec Breaking
Created: 2025-02-08
---

## Simple Summary
This CIP replicates [EIP-6780](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-6780), which prevents contracts from being destroyed by `SELFDESTRUCT` in most cases, with the only exception being the destruction of a contract within the same transaction as its creation.

## Motivation

[EIP-7702](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7702) enables the setting of a proxy contract address for an EOA (Externally Owned Account), allowing the EOA to be called like a contract. However, if a contract executes `SELFDESTRUCT`, it would kill the EOA, reset its nonce to zero, and lead to significant security issues such as replay attacks. 

Even if one argues that the owner of the EOA is responsible for delegating their account to secure code, the act of clearing the EOA breaks numerous assumptions in the blockchain system's implementation. Therefore, to implement [EIP-7702](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7702), supporting this [EIP-6780](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-6780) is a prerequisite.

## Specification  
Same as [EIP-6780](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-6780).  

Additionally, the `destroy` function in the `AdminControl` internal contract will no longer be usable and will result in an internal contract error.  

## Rationale  

The `destroy` function in the `AdminControl` contract is equivalent to a contract actively executing `SELFDESTRUCT`. As a result, after this EIP, the `destroy` function will only transfer the balance of the specified contract to the caller (its admin). However, there is almost no reasonable justification for this behavior. If the contract's business logic requires such functionality, it can be implemented directly within the contract's code. Retaining this capability solely introduces security risks to the contract is not advisable.  

Another behavior that was previously considered was to leave the `destroy` function in the `AdminControl` contract unchanged, allowing it to retain the ability to destroy contracts. However, this option offers little benefit. First, the Ethereum community is actively encouraging the deprecation of this feature (see [EIP-6049](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-6049.md)). Second, in the context of `AdminControl` interactions, 99% of transactions involve setting the contract's admin to the zero address, signifying that the project team responsibly relinquishes the `destroy` authority granted by the admin role, while less than 1% of transactions actually utilize this feature. So the benefits it provides are far outweighed by the complications it introduces. This modification also limits the admin's permissions to managing peripheral functionalities (e.g., managing contract sponsorship whitelists), allowing the ecosystem to benefit from the admin mechanism without being scrutinized for holding sensitive permissions.  

## Backwards Compatibility
This CIP is Spec Breaking.

## Security Considerations
<!--All CIPs must contain a section that discusses the security implications/considerations relevant to the proposed change. Include information that might be important for security discussions, surfaces risks and can be used throughout the life cycle of the proposal. E.g. include security-relevant design decisions, concerns, important discussions, implementation-specific guidance and pitfalls, an outline of threats and risks and how they are being addressed. CIP submissions missing the "Security Considerations" section will be rejected. a CIP cannot proceed to status "Final" without a Security Considerations discussion deemed sufficient by the reviewers.-->
N/A

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).