---
cip: 109
title: RPC API for Custodial Wallet Provider
author: Wenda Zhang<@darwintree>
discussions-to: https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/issues/110
status: Draft
type: Backward Compatible
created: 2023-2-23
requires: EIP-1193
---

- [Simple Summary](#simple-summary)
- [Abstract](#abstract)
- [Specification](#specification)
  - [Definitions](#definitions)
  - [RPC API](#rpc-api)
    - [Authorization Interface](#authorization-interface)
      - [wallet\_authorize](#wallet_authorize)
      - [wallet\_checkAuthorizationState](#wallet_checkauthorizationstate)
      - [wallet\_revoke](#wallet_revoke)
    - [Resource Request Interface](#resource-request-interface)
      - [cfx\_accounts](#cfx_accounts)
      - [cfx\_sendTransaction](#cfx_sendtransaction)
      - [cfx\_chainId](#cfx_chainid)
      - [cfx\_signTypedData\_V4](#cfx_signtypeddata_v4)
      - [personal\_sign](#personal_sign)
    - [Other Wallet Function Interfaces](#other-wallet-function-interfaces)
      - [wallet\_switchConfluxChain](#wallet_switchconfluxchain)
      - [wallet\_fullVersion](#wallet_fullversion)
  - [Errors](#errors)
    - [Inherited Errors](#inherited-errors)
    - [Extended Errors](#extended-errors)
- [Rationale](#rationale)
- [Backwards Compatibility](#backwards-compatibility)
- [Test Cases](#test-cases)
- [Implementations](#implementations)
- [Security Considerations](#security-considerations)
- [Copyright](#copyright)
- [Appendix 1: Implementation and Security Recommendations for Custodial Wallet Service](#appendix-1-implementation-and-security-recommendations-for-custodial-wallet-service)
  - [Implementation](#implementation)
    - [Implementation based on OAuth2](#implementation-based-on-oauth2)
  - [Security Recommendations](#security-recommendations)
- [Appendix 2: Target Parameter](#appendix-2-target-parameter)
- [Appendix 3: Other Discussions](#appendix-3-other-discussions)
  - [Return Value of `wallet_authorize`](#return-value-of-wallet_authorize)
  - [Adding Additional Parameters to `cfx_sendTransaction`](#adding-additional-parameters-to-cfx_sendtransaction)
    - [`wallet_getTransactionStatusById`](#wallet_gettransactionstatusbyid)
- [Appendix 4: Optional Interfaces](#appendix-4-optional-interfaces)
  - [net\_version](#net_version)
  - [wallet\_userInfo](#wallet_userinfo)
- [Appendix 5: Initialization of Provider](#appendix-5-initialization-of-provider)

Note ⚠️: This standard is a draft and its content may change at any time.

## Simple Summary

This CIP proposes a set of Provider RPC APIs for custodial wallets.

## Abstract

Wallets are the entry point for users to access blockchain. Depending on the implementation and key storage method, different types of wallets have significant differences. Among them, custodial wallets are a type of wallet service: the user's private key is stored on a third-party server, and the user uses the wallet by using the custodial wallet service. This type of wallet introduces additional trust in the wallet service, bringing certain risks, but also reduces the threshold for using the blockchain: custodial wallets can shield users from key management details, and also make it possible for users to interact with DAPPs without installing browser plugins (or wallet clients).

[EIP-1193](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1193) standardizes the way wallets interact with DAPPs. In this EIP, the wallet exposes its interface through the "Provider" object, and the DAPP interacts with the wallet through the interface provided by the Provider. The functionality of this EIP can be expanded by supporting new RPC APIs. For custodial wallets, the implementation, authorization, supported functions, have certain differences from plugin wallets, therefore, custodial wallet services often need to define additional RPC APIs to provide services, and in some cases, they may also modify existing RPC APIs. Different custodial wallets may provide different APIs, which means that developers need to adapt to different APIs for each custodial wallet, increasing development difficulty and workload, and limiting the application range of custodial wallets among developers.

This document aims to propose a set of RPC API specifications for custodial wallets, providing developers with consistent RPC API standards, reducing developers' workload and development difficulty, and promoting the wider application of custodial wallets. These API specifications will cover a series of operations related to custodial wallets, such as authorization, revocation of authorization, signature, etc. In addition, this CIP will also detail the parameters, return values, and exceptional situations of each API, so that developers can better implement or use the APIs. 


## Specification

The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC-2119.

### Definitions

- Provider. A JavaScript object through which DAPP interacts with the wallet. Unless otherwise specified, it follows the specifications of [EIP-1193](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1193).
- DAPP. Decentralized application.
- Remote Procedure Call (RPC). In this document, it generally refers to the request submitted by DAPP to Provider, and its processing is handled by Provider itself or a remote wallet server.
- Custodial wallet service. The custodial wallet service controls the user's private key, and users use the wallet by using the online custodial wallet service. It also refers to the web pages/APPs controlled by the custodial wallet service. Users need to interact with the custodial wallet service to authorize the DAPP.


### RPC API

#### Authorization Interface

##### wallet_authorize

Authorize an account. After calling this API, the user will interact with the custodial wallet service to authorize the DAPP. The behavior of this API depends on the parameters in use.

Parameters:

```ts
{
    target: string,
    availableChains: string[],
    scope: string[]
}
```

1. Object
- target: string

  - Including the following options, and the custodial wallet service **MAY** only support some of them.
    
    - `blank` Open the authorization page in a new tab.
    - `self` Jump from the current page to the authorization page.
    - `iframe` Open the authorization page in an iframe on the page.

      > Among these three parameters, blank and self will direct the user to a page controlled by the custodial wallet service for authorization, while iframe will authorize within an iframe on the page. For more information, see [Appendix 2: target parameter](#appendix-2-target-parameter).

- availableChains:

  - A list of network IDs that users are limited to select, such as `['0x405']`(In Conflux, 1029 is the main network, and 1 is the test network).
  - Users can only select and authorize on specified networks.
  - Passing an empty array indicates that all networks supported by the wallet are available for selection.

- scope:

  - Determines the types of operations that can be performed after authorization. The custodial wallet service **MUST** show the scope requested by the application to the user and obtain their approval.
    - Optional. The custodial wallet service **MAY** allow the user to approve only a subset of the scope requested.
  - The custodial wallet service **MUST** support `address` and `sign` scopes.
    - `address`. View the address.
    - `sign`. Apply for permission to sign data/transactions. When this permission is not approved by the user, the signature interface will be unavailable. The custodial wallet service **MAY** also support the following two sub-scopes to refine the DAPP's signing capability:
      - `sign_data`
      - `sign_tx`
  - Optional. The custodial wallet service may support other scopes, such as:
    - `phone`
    - `email`
    - `avatar`
    - `openid`
    - and so on.

  > After the `sign` scope is approved, it does not mean that the request for signing no longer requires user authorization. This depends on the implementation of the custodial wallet service.

Return value:

If `target` is set to `self`, the context is interrupted, and the discussion on return values is meaningless.

- No return value.
- Throws an exception if authorization fails.

> For more information about the return value of `wallet_authorize`, see [Return Value of `wallet_authorize`](#return-value-of-wallet_authorize)


Example：

```js
provider.request({
    method: "wallet_authorize"，
    params: [{
        target: "iframe",
        availableChains: ["0x1", "0x405"]
        scope:["address", "sign"]
    }]
}).then(()=>{
    console.log("authorization success")
}).catch(console.error)
```

##### wallet_checkAuthorizationState

Confirm and update the current authorization state.

Parameters: None.

```ts
{
    authorized: bool,
    scope: string[]
}
```

Return value: Object
- authorized: bool. Whether authorization has been granted.
- scope: string[]. The scope approved by the user. If not authorized, it is an empty array (`[]`).

##### wallet_revoke

Revokes the tokens related to the DAPP locally and on the wallet server (if they exist). No parameters. No return value. Throws an error if the revocation fails.

> https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7009

#### Resource Request Interface

##### cfx_accounts

Get the address of the currently connected account on the current connected network.

Parameters: None.

Return value: string[]

- If authorized, an array containing only one address.
- If not authorized or the wallet is locked, it returns `[]`.

##### cfx_sendTransaction

Sign and send the transaction. When `scope` does not contain `sign` (or sub-permission `sign_tx`), an error **SHOULD** be thrown directly. At the same time, the wallet service **SHOULD** assist users in reviewing the transaction in an appropriate manner (such as SMS, mobile apps, etc.). For transactions with `data` that cannot be parsed, the wallet service can **OPTIONALLY** warn the user, reject the signature, etc. to avoid potential security risks.

Parameters:

1. txParams
- from
- to
- data

Return value: string
- Transaction hash.

> For additional discussion of this interface, see [Adding Additional Parameters to `cfx_sendTransaction`](#adding-additional-parameters-to-cfx_sendtransaction)

##### cfx_chainId

Get the chain id of the network that the user has authorized.

Parameters: None.

Return value: string hex.

##### cfx_signTypedData_V4

CIP-23 structured data signature. When `scope` does not contain `sign` (or sub-permission `sign_data`), an error **SHOULD** be thrown directly. At the same time, the wallet  **SHOULD** assist users in reviewing the signature content in an appropriate manner (such as SMS, mobile apps, etc.).

Parameters:

1. data
   > Refer to [https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/blob/2d9fdbdb08f66f705348669a6cd85e2d53509e97/CIPs/cip-23.md](https://github.com/Conflux-Chain/CIPs/blob/2d9fdbdb08f66f705348669a6cd85e2d53509e97/CIPs/cip-23.md)
2. from, address, signer

Return value: string
- Hexadecimal string.

##### personal_sign

CIP-23 non-structured message signature. When `scope` does not contain `sign` (or sub-permission `sign_tx`), an error **SHOULD** be thrown directly. At the same time, the wallet service **SHOULD** assist users in reviewing the signature content in an appropriate manner (such as SMS, mobile apps, etc.).

Parameters:

1. msg, string, message to be signed.
2. from, address, signer

Return value: string
- Hexadecimal string.

#### Other Wallet Function Interfaces

##### wallet_switchConfluxChain

Parameters:
    
1. object
   - chainId: hex string

Return Value:

No return value. Throws an error when failed (unsupported chain) or authorization is not granted.

> EIP-3326

##### wallet_fullVersion

Get wallet name and version

No parameters

Return Value: Object

- name: string, wallet name.
- version: string, wallet version, naming convention is not required.

Example：

```js
{
  name: "MetaWallet",
  version: "1.0.0"
}
```

```js
{
  name: "anywallet",
  version: "2023.2.23"
}
```

### Errors

The error format follows the conventions of EIP-1193. More errors are defined here additionally.

#### Inherited Errors

| status code | name                  |
| ----------- | --------------------- |
| 4001        | User Rejected Request |
| 4100        | Unauthorized          |
| 4200        | Unsupported Method    |
| 4900        | Disconnected          |
| 4901        | Chain Disconnected    |

#### Extended Errors

| status code | name                |                                        |
| ----------- | ------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| 5000        | SDKNotReady         | The SDK or related dependencies have not been initialized yet. |
| 6000        | ParamsError         | Parameter error when calling RPC API. |
| 6101        | Forbidden           | No permission. |
| 7000        | RequestError        | Request error, see Message and data for specific information. |
| 7101        | ServerInternalError | Internal server error of the wallet. |
| 7102        | Timeout             | Connection to the wallet server timed out. |

## Rationale

TBA.

## Backwards Compatibility

TBA.

## Test Cases

TBA.

## Implementations

Refer to [Appendix 1: Implementation and Security Recommendations for Custodial Wallet Service](#appendix-1-implementation-and-security-recommendations-for-custodial-wallet-service)。

## Security Considerations

Refer to [Appendix 1: Implementation and Security Recommendations for Custodial Wallet Service](#appendix-1-implementation-and-security-recommendations-for-custodial-wallet-service)。


## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

## Appendix 1: Implementation and Security Recommendations for Custodial Wallet Service

### Implementation

This CIP does not impose mandatory requirements on "implementation" and "security". Custodial wallet services can choose their own implementation methods.

#### Implementation based on OAuth2

The `OAuth2` framework is one of the optional implementation methods. Its advantage is that the OAuth2 authorization framework has rich documentation and open source implementations. Its standard documentation discusses various potential attacks and security risks, and there are also BCP (Best Current Practice) documents for reference. Implementing based on OAuth2 standards helps to avoid potential security issues in protocol design and also helps to improve protocol interoperability. When implementing, the following points can be considered:

- Implement based on the [Proof Key for Code Exchange by OAuth Public Clients](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7636.html) authorization flow, which can support authorization of pure front-end applications. For details, see [OAuth 2.0 for Browser-Based Apps](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-browser-based-apps).
- Pay attention to the expiration time of the access token. Besides, if refresh token is supported, it is recommended to support the refresh token rotation.
- The way for users to review transactions. Generally speaking, the wallet needs to obtain the user's permission for a specific transaction before signing the transaction. If implemented based on OAuth2, the user's review of transactions may require additional dependencies, such as SMS services, wallet clients, etc.

Related documentation:

- [The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749)
- [Proof Key for Code Exchange by OAuth Public Clients](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7636.html)
- [OAuth 2.0 Security Best Current Practice](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-security-topics)
- [OAuth 2.0 for Native Apps](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8252.html)
- [OAuth 2.0 for Browser-Based Apps](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-browser-based-apps)
  - [Token Storage in the Browser](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-browser-based-apps#name-token-storage-in-the-browse)
  - [JavaScript Applications obtaining tokens directly](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-browser-based-apps#name-javascript-applications-obt)）
- [OpenID Connect Core 1.0 incorporating errata set 1](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html)

### Security Recommendations

The OAuth2 standard discusses various security issues, some of which also apply to other protocols. Some typical issues include:

- [Client Impersonation](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-browser-based-apps#name-client-impersonation)
- [Cross-Site Request Forgery Protections](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-browser-based-apps#name-cross-site-request-forgery-)
- [Insufficient Redirect URI Validation](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-security-topics#name-insufficient-redirect-uri-v)

> For a more detailed list, refer to the security considerations section of the recommended documents in the [Implementation](#implementation) section.

In addition, when using wallet SDKs in a remotely loaded manner (such as through a CDN), additional security dependencies are introduced. If the CDN is attacked, the corresponding SDK may be injected

```html
<script
  src="https://example.cdn.com/wallet.min.js"
  integrity="sha384-q8i/X+965DzO0rT7abK41JStQIAqVgRVzpbzo5smXKp4YfRvH+8abtTE1Pi6jizo"
></script>
```

## Appendix 2: Target Parameter

The `wallet_authorize` parameters include:

- self
- blank
- iframe

Corresponding to the window in which the user authorizes. The `self` and `blank` parameters are compatible with the OAuth2 process and will open the authorized page controlled by the custodial wallet service in the current window/new window respectively. After the authorization is completed, the token (code) will be redirected to the specified page (the `redirect_uri` in OAuth2).

> Currently, there is no standard document in the OAuth2 protocol discussing the authorization method based on iframes. It can be implemented based on the technique of "intermediate iframes". Implementation reference: https://developers.google.com/identity/gsi/web/amp/intermediate-iframe?hl=en

## Appendix 3: Other Discussions

### Return Value of `wallet_authorize`

When `target` is `blank`, the return value can be obtained in the original window via using `window.opener` API. However, it should be noted that in specific environments, `window.opener` may not be available, which may cause the behavior of the `blank` parameter to be inconsistent with expectations.

### Adding Additional Parameters to `cfx_sendTransaction`

Consider adding additional parameter `waitForHash` to `cfx_sendTransaction`, which returns before signing.

The process of calling the interface->user authorization->signing is a time-consuming asynchronous process, and the transaction hash cannot be obtained until the signing is completed. Adding this parameter can make DAPP handle related logic more flexibly.

`waitForHash` determines the return value type.

Parameters:

1. txParams
   - from
   - to
   - data
2. waitForHash: (optional) bool, whether to wait for the transaction hash.

Return Value: String

The return value is a hex string, and its meaning depends on the value of `waitForHash`.

- `waitForHash` is null or true: transaction hash.
- When `waitForHash` is false: transaction identifier `walletTxId`. The transaction hash can be obtained later through the `wallet_getTransactionStatusById` interface.

#### `wallet_getTransactionStatusById`

Get the transaction authorization status, used for the `waitForHash` parameter of `cfx_sendTransaction` is false.

Parameters:

1. walletTxId: hex string

Returns:

An object

```ts
{
    walletTxStatus: string,
    message: string | undefined,
    hash: string ｜ undefined
}
```

- walletTxStatus: String
  - "approving": Authorization in progress, the user has not yet authorized or is currently authorizing.
  - "approved": Transaction has been allowed.
  - "rejected": The transaction was not approved for various reasons (user refusal, timeout, etc.).
  - "not found": The corresponding transaction was not found or has timed out and been cleared.
  - "illegal": An illegal transaction was found during signing/sending.
- message: String. Additional information describing the transaction status.
- hash: String. This field is included when `walletTxStatus` is "approved" and represents the transaction hash.

## Appendix 4: Optional Interfaces

This section identifies some **OPTIONAL** interfaces.

### net_version

Parameters: None
Return Value: String network_id

> For DAPP developers, we recommend using `cfx_chainId` instead.

### wallet_userInfo

Get user information based on the approved scope.

Parameters: None

Return Value: Object

An object that depends on the approved scope.

## Appendix 5: Initialization of Provider

In the plugin wallet, the Provider is directly injected into the browser by the plugin, and its initialization process is not controlled by the DAPP. For custodial wallets, the introduction of the Provider depends on whether the DAPP has introduced the corresponding SDK, and its initialization process is controlled by the DAPP. This CIP does not make any specifications for the initialization method or parameters of Provider. Here are some feasible examples, such as:

```js
import { Provider } from 'wallet-sdk'; 

const provider = new Provider({
  clientId: ...,
  ...
})
```

```html
<script
  src="https://example.cdn.com/wallet.min.js"
  integrity="sha384-q8i/X+965DzO0rT7abK41JStQIAqVgRVzpbzo5smXKp4YfRvH+8abtTE1Pi6jizo"
></script>
<script type="text/javascript">
  const provider = new window.xxwallet.Provider({
    clientId: ...,
    ...
  })
</script>
```
