---
CIP No.: 156
Title: Change the PoS Malicious Penalty From Stake Forfeiting to Stake Locking 
Author: Peilun Li <peilun.li@confluxnetwork.org>, Chenxing Li <chenxing@confluxnetwork.org>
Status: Accepted
Type: Spec Breaking
Created: 2025-03-12
Required CIPs (*optional): 43
---

<!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged CIP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new CIPs. Note that a CIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your CIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `CIP-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.-->

## Simple Summary
This CIP changes the penalty of PoS malicious behavior from permanent stake forfeiting to temporary stake locking. 

## Abstract
PoS malicious behavior may come from an honest but careless node operator. This CIP changes the permanent penalty to a temporary one, making the operators less concerned. And this still gives the community time to decide if this is indeed an attack and how to penalize the attacker. 

## Motivation
Conflux PoS node operation can be complicated, especially if the operator wants to keep a backup node so that the voting is not paused during the node upgrade. Some careless operations like keeping both nodes voting, or removing the safety-guarantee file, can lead to a possible double voting behavior. Although the chance is very small since PoS rounds move forwards fast, and most nodes will follow the same rule for their voting, many node operators are still concern about the penalty since all their stake will be in danger. 

This PR aims to alleviate the concern, but leaves the safety guarantee unchanged.

## Specification
After this CIP is enabled, if a malicious behavior (to be specific, double voting) is detected and disputed, the stake of the voter will be locked for 6 months. Note that the stake includes all the stakes that have been locked and all the stakes that are being locked or unlocked.

This locking has a similar behavior as normal stake unlocking, except that it takes much longer to unlock. The stake will be unlocked automatically after this period. Before that, the voter can still stake more votes to become active votes again.

## Backwards Compatibility
All CIPs that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity. The CIP must explain how the author proposes to deal with these incompatibilities. CIP submissions without a sufficient backwards compatibility treatise may be rejected outright.

## Test Cases
N/A

## Implementation
N/A

## Security Considerations
If an honest node operator is penalized, his stake will remain safe. His loss will be the liquidity and the interest in the 6 months, so the operator will still be carefull, but the loss is acceptable for a careless operation.

If an actual attacker is penalized, the community can reach an agreement to decide how to deal with this. 6 months should be enough for an investigation and a hardfork implementation if needed.

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
